>> Brian Holt: Let's talk
about TanStack Router.
Somebody in chat right now is
just smashing their keyboard,
what about React Router?
Let me get to you first before you ask
me that question cuz I know someone is
out there just immediately
just pouncing on that.
What about React Router?
What about it?
That's it, though.
Okay, now TanStack Router,
no, I'm just kidding.
Why did we choose TanStack Router for
this particular course?
Historically, I've taught React Router for
almost every iteration of this.
There was one that I taught Reach Router,
which then got folded into React Router,
so effectively React Router.
Couple of thoughts here.
If you want React Router,
you can go to v8 of this course.
So it's just React V8 Holt courses.
And you can see right here, React Router,
all of this is very applicable,
up to date, feel free to pop in there and
look at that.
The reason why I chose TanStack Router for
this particular course is that
TanStack Router is very focused
on client-side React routing.
That's what their goal is.,
that's their primary use case.
And React Router has,
I'm gonna go with equal attention for
server side routing, aka Remix,
right, and client side routing.
It works very well in
client side situations.
Feel free to still use React Router,
you'll get only slight side eye from me.
No, I'm just kidding, it's great,
totally fun, and I've used it for years.
But I appreciated the direction of
TanStack Router and their exclusive
focus on client side routing,
which fit better with this course.
So they work quite similar.
So learning one, you're gonna get a kind
of a rough feel of what the other
one works like anyway, but
that's why we chose it for this one.
They've actually announced that
React Router v7 and Remix,
they're converging,
they're gonna be the same thing.
So remix will eventually
just be React Router again.
So, hopefully that's enough of
an explanation of why I chose
TanStack Router.
It was a bit of a controversial decision,
but I think you'll be very
pleasantly surprised that it's
a really good developer experience.
I really like it,
I've been using it quite a bit.
>> Brian Holt: So the docs are great,
feel free to pop in here and
look at their docs.
We are gonna also be using TanStack Query
today as well, it fit really well.
TanStack Start is kind of their version
of Remix, Next, right, where it's kind
of a more full-stack solution, or
maybe even closer, create React app.
It's kind of their more opinionated
meta framework for TanStack.
And then I've looked a little
bit at store as well.
This is essentially their Redux,
which I have not used hardly at all,
because I don't think I need it anymore.
Anyway, they have a bunch of really
cool components, forms are interesting.
I think Virtual is the one that allows
you to do, yeah, you have a massive UI,
let's say you have to render
a million rows of a table.
TanStack Virtual can help you
with stuff like that as well.
In general, React has just a phenomenal
ecosystem of really cool stuff.
And today we're gonna be using two
stuff from TanStack just because they
happen to work really well together.
But you should definitely go explore.
If you have some idea of,
man, I wish there was a code
editor that I could use in React.
Lo and behold, there's definitely a code
editor that you can use in React.
There's a text editor,
there's all sorts of cool stuff.
We are using Router today.
Other thing to mention here
is in intermediate React,
we will be using something
more full-stack.
Have not decided, but likely Next, right,
just because again, that's kind of
the ones that people default to.
>> Brian Holt: So in other words,
we will not be using
TanStack Router in intermediate.
So if that's something you're interested,
stay tuned, we'll talk about it.
And again, I just wanna emphasize,
you're spoiled for choice here,
there's a lot of good choices.
Again, React Router, totally valid here.
Okay, so open your project.
You can pause your Vite server for
a second.
And we are going to npm install
@tanstack/react-router@1.65.0.
There might be a new version
of it available, but again,
this is all the versions
I tested together.
I'm gonna do npm install -D.
Again, I would just grab
these directly off the docs,
cuz it's a mouthful to say out loud.
But it's this one here.
So TanStack,
we put into the normal dependencies,
cuz it's actually gonna go
out to production, right?
And these ones are dev tools.
So there's a router plugin that
we're gonna provide to Vite, and
there are dev tools that
we're gonna install as well.
So there's actual tools they build into
it that make it easier to use, okay?
So install both of those.
>> Brian Holt: The nice thing about...
React does this, TanStack does this as well.
Did you notice that all
the versions are the same?
That's because whenever they cut
a new version of any of them,
they just cut a new
version of all of them.
And so if you're using 1.65.0, you just
know, I just grab all of those, and
I know all those work together.
So you don't have to worry about,
which one do I use with which?
>> Brian Holt: It is kind of annoying,
though, cuz you end up with,
there's a bunch of versions of them
that don't do anything, right?
It's literally just another
cut of the same previous one.
The cost you pay.
Okay, let's go to our vite.config,
and we need to import TanStackRouterVite
from @tanstack/router-plugin/vite.
So you can see there's a webpack
version of this as well,
as well as rspack,
which I know less about that one.
I think that's a Rust one.
Anyway, definitely not
the point of this course.
>> Brian Holt: Plugins,
be sure to add this before React here.
We're just gonna put the same thing here,
just like that.
This makes a TanStack Router aware of
basically where all your routes are going.
It adds some like niceties, and I'll
show you some of those as we get going.
One of them is you're gonna see generated
in your code is routetree.gen.ts.
>> Brian Holt: It's nice that
this is a TypeScript file,
because VS Code can read it and
read the types, and
it's gonna just make all the type
completions work really well.
This is a generated file from
TanStack Router that you'll
import into your project.
You do check it into Git.
Generally, you don't check any generated
files into Git, but this one you do.
And it'll just continue to get
regenerated as your project goes on.
So inside of your source directory,
we're going to create a new
directory inside of that.
So let's just go ahead and click +,
I'm gonna just call it routes,
and let's make a underscore,
underscore.
So double underscore, or the dunder,
as I was informed, as it's called.
I did not make that up,
the dunder, it's a Python thing,
apparently, sprouty Pythonistas.
so __root.jsx.
This is basically, what is your root, or
what is every route in
your page gonna have?
So I mean, I guess it's probably
worth stepping back, is like,
what are we doing [LAUGH]
here in the first place?
We're making a single page application,
a SPA, right,
that has multiple different pages.
So it's gonna have an order page,
it's gonna have a past orders page, and
it's gonna have a contact page.
And we wanna be able to
route from page to page.
You want them to have unique URLs.
That's all the stuff that we're
gonna be working on right now.
The __root.jsx file is basically like,
what code do all of these share together?
What is the root of all of
these page files look like?
So that's what we're gonna do here.
>> Brian Holt: And
this is what we're gonna put in it.
We're gonna say,
import  from 'react',
import  from
'@tanstack/react-router', as
well as Outlet.
>> Brian Holt: We're gonna import
the TanStackRouterDevtools.
>> Brian Holt: Pizza of the day.
We're basically recreating
what was in app.jsx.
We're gonna make app.jsx much smaller, and
most of the stuff is
gonna live in the root.
>> Brian Holt: Import the header.
>> Brian Holt: And
import  from 'contexts',
export default function,
>> Brian Holt: No, sorry,
export const Route.
It's just a convention with TanStack,
rather, that's gonna be looking for Route.
So you do have to call it that.
CreateRootRoute,
>> Brian Holt: And
you just give it the component
that it expects.
Now, you can get this just
a function directly here.
You could make another function and
then reference that in there,
that's totally up to you.
With this one,
we're just gonna put it in there.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, const cartHook.
I mean, you can even just go into
app.jsx and get some of this, right?
So basically everything
inside of strict mode.
>> Brian Holt: Return.
>> Brian Holt: And
then we have to make the cartHook up here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, cart provider,
put inside of a div, header.
We're gonna replace order
with something else.
We're gonna call this outlet.
This is the part that's gonna
get swapped out, right?
So this is actually what's going
to be rendered onto the page, and
then we're gonna be able to switch
all of our different pages into this
particular thing.
So order is one of the pages, right, then
they're gonna click the About page, and
the About page is gonna load.
Then they're gonna click that and
it's gonna swap that out,
and the outlet is where
that actually ends up.
I'm gonna show you one more weird trick.
We don't have to do it this way, but
I just wanted to show you how to do this.
Let's say I wanted to,
down here at the bottom,
put in tans to our dev tools, right?
This is mad.
Why is this mad?
>> Speaker 2: Cuz you can only return one,
or one thing.
>> Brian Holt: Yep,
it's the same reason I can't do something
like this where I say,
const thing equals 1, 5.
There are languages that let you do this,
right, but JavaScript is not among them.
You can only return one thing at a time,
and
this is returning two different things,
right?
This is returning this and this,
because they're siblings and
there's not one thing
encapsulating both of them.
It won't let you do that.
So if I wanted to have thing to be
both of these things, what would I do?
Just make an array out of it, right?
Now it's fine, cuz you have one array
that contains both those things.
You can also do this with React, and
it's with this weird syntax
that looks like this.
>> Brian Holt: So
it's an empty tag, right?
And then this is like
an empty closing tag.
Remember, what does React
do in these situations?
It just wraps stuff in arrays, right?
So that's literally what this is, this is
just wrapping these two things in array.
Make sense?
Yeah, kinda strange, but
that is how that works.
So if you find yourselves like, I wanna
return two things as a sibling at the top,
that's when you're gonna
use something like this.
>> Speaker 3: I noticed we lost
strict mode in the transition.
I'm not sure if that's important for you.
>> Brian Holt: We're
gonna leave that in app.
>> Speaker 3: Ahaa.
>> Brian Holt: But that is astute.
So let's head over to app.jsx and
make our modifications over here as well.
So we don't useState anymore,
cuz we're not gonna be
doing that in here anymore,
we're doing that in the RootRoute.
We need to createRoot, that's good.
We don't need PizzaOfTheDay,
we don't need Order, we don't need Header,
all that stuff exists in our RootRoute.
We don't need that.
So we do need our import
from "@tanstack/react-router", and
we also need a createRouter function,
this one, okay?
And then the other thing,
we need to use that generated file
that it's about to generate for us.
So just trust me on this one that
there's no file here now, but
it will be by the time that we care.
Import  from this
soon-to-be-generated './routeTree.gen'.
So again, it doesn't exist yet, but
you'll see this show up shortly.
>> Brian Holt: Const router = createRouter
with routeTree.
>> Brian Holt: Get rid of this
cartHook in here, get rid of that.
In fact, most of stuff can be
got given away or just deleted.
We'll leave StrictMode in here.
You might ask why,
it could be moved to the other one,
but my tendency is to wrap
everything in StrictMode, right?
So that's why.
And then all we have to do
here is say RouterProvider
router=, and that's it.
TanStack Router handles the rest of it for
us.
Right now we have order.jsx
as just a component.
In reality, it's kind of a route, right?
Let me assert, that is, it is a route.
So we need to go make it around.
So we're gonna move order into routes.
We're gonna move, you can say,
update the imports, yes, please.
Notice that it's now going for,
instead of ./, it's doing ../.
That's the updates that it did for us.
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna rename this.
And this is their convention, I would
have been tempted to name this with
an uppercase, but they don't,
order, lowercase o.
And we're gonna call it lazy.jsx.
>> Brian Holt: This is
signifying to TanStack Router.
I want you to lazy-load this.
So you just put it in the name, and
it's gonna know exactly what you want.
It's like, okay, I'm gonna split
the route or the package here, and
I'll load this later.
Whenever the user requests the order page,
they'll get this, but
they won't load it until then,
which is kinda cool.
If I didn't put that there and
it was just order.jsx,
it would just load it
immediately every single time.
In our particular case, our components and
our routes are fairly small.
I probably wouldn't lazy-load these,
I probably would just load
everything every single time.
But if you're building an app of any size,
these routes tend to get a little
bit bigger every single time.
So in that case,
I probably would lazy-load,
which is why I'm gonna show you today
everything we're just gonna lazy-load.